---
uuid: 0ea35968-4578-408c-b4fd-8c6ccc3501b0
url: http://aws.amazon.com/message/4372T8/
title: AWS Sydney Region power disruption on June 4th
start_time: 2012-06-04T22:25:00-07:00
end_time: 2012-06-05T08:00:00-07:00
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- postmortem
- hardware
keywords:
- aws
- sydney
- power outage
- ec2
- ebs
- availability zone
- drups
- voltage sag
company: Amazon
product: EC2, EBS
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:45:22.453358Z
summary: At 10:25pm PDT on June 4, loss of power at an AWS Sydney facility resulting from severe weather in that area lead to disruption to a significant number of instances in an Availability Zone. Due to the signature of the power loss, power  isolation breakers did not engage, resulting in backup energy reserves draining into the degraded power grid.

---

On June 4th at 10:25 PM PDT, severe weather caused a utility power loss at a regional substation, impacting multiple AWS facilities in the Sydney Region. In one Availability Zone, the power redundancy system, specifically Diesel Rotary Uninterruptable Power Supplies (DRUPS), failed to operate as designed, leading to a loss of power for a significant number of EC2 instances and associated EBS volumes.

The root cause was an unusual, prolonged voltage sag from the utility provider, rather than a complete power outage. This specific signature prevented isolation breakers from opening quickly enough, causing the DRUPS' energy reserves to drain into the degraded power grid. Consequently, the DRUPS shut down, preventing the integrated generators from engaging and connecting to the datacenter racks.

The power loss resulted in customer EC2 instances and EBS volumes going offline. Customers also experienced errors when attempting to launch new instances or scale auto-scaling groups. Power was manually restored to the facility at 11:46 PM PDT. Automated systems began bringing services back online, with over 80% of impacted instances and volumes operational by 1:00 AM PDT.

Following power restoration, some instances faced DNS resolution failures, which recovered by 2:49 AM PDT. A latent bug in instance management software slowed the recovery of remaining instances, requiring manual intervention until nearly all were recovered by 8:00 AM PDT. A small number of EBS volumes (less than 0.01%) were unrecoverable due to simultaneous hard drive failures on both replicated storage servers.

AWS plans to enhance the power design by adding more breakers to quickly isolate from degraded utility power during voltage sags, ensuring generators activate before UPS depletion. They will also fix the latent instance recovery bug and implement regular testing of recovery processes on long-running hosts. Improvements to API resilience are also underway, with changes expected in the Sydney Region in July.

