---
uuid: 3435a88e-1b33-447e-9b4e-fda0625db87f
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northeast_blackout_of_2003
title: Northeast blackout of 2003
start_time: 2003-08-14T20:10:00Z
end_time: 2003-08-16T10:30:00Z
categories:
- cascading-failure
- postmortem
- hardware
- security
keywords:
- blackout
- power outage
- firstenergy
- general electric
- xa/21
- alarm system
- northeast
- ontario
company: FirstEnergy / General Electric
product: XA/21 energy management system
source_author: Contributors to Wikimedia projects
source_published_at: 2003-08-14T20:26:34Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:46:37.584235Z
summary: FirstEnergy had a local failure when some transmission lines hit untrimmed foliage. The normal process is to have an alarm go off, which causes human operators to re-distribute power. But the GE system that was monitoring this had a bug which prevented the alarm from getting triggered, which eventually caused a cascading failure that eventually affected 55 million people.

---

The Northeast blackout of 2003 began on August 14, 2003, just after 4:10 p.m. EDT, affecting parts of the Northeastern and Midwestern United States and most of Ontario, Canada. The incident started with local failures in the FirstEnergy system, where transmission lines contacted untrimmed foliage. This led to a cascading failure across the regional electricity distribution system.

The primary technical cause was a software bug, specifically a race condition, in General Electric Energy's Unix-based XA/21 energy management system used by FirstEnergy. This bug stalled the control room's alarm system for over an hour, rendering operators unaware of critical system changes and the need to redistribute electrical load. Contributing factors included FirstEnergy's failure to adequately manage tree growth and assess system vulnerabilities.

The widespread outage affected an estimated 55 million people, including 10 million in Ontario and 45 million in eight U.S. states. Customer impact included disruptions to transportation (Amtrak, airports), communication (overloaded cellular networks), and water supply (loss of pressure, boil advisories). The incident occurred during high temperatures, increasing energy demand and exacerbating the initial strain on power lines.

Most affected areas saw power restored within hours, with some as early as 6 p.m. on August 14. However, full restoration for major cities like New York and parts of Toronto took until August 16. A joint U.S.-Canada task force investigated the incident, highlighting FirstEnergy's operational failures and the lack of enforceable reliability standards in the U.S. at the time. The event underscored the need for substantial investment in grid reliability.

