---
uuid: 3abfd687-5668-42e9-8c9b-00c07889ad69
url: http://aws.amazon.com/message/680587/
title: Amazon ELB Service Event in US-East Region December 2012
start_time: 2012-12-24T20:24:00Z
end_time: 2012-12-25T20:05:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
keywords:
- elb
- elastic load balancing
- us-east
- aws
- data deletion
- control plane
- maintenance error
- access control
company: Amazon
product: Elastic Load Balancing
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:46:45.265611Z
summary: Elastic Load Balancer ran into problems when "a maintenance process that was inadvertently run against the production ELB state data".

---

The incident began at 12:24 PM PST on December 24, 2012, when a portion of the Amazon Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) state data was logically deleted. This immediately caused high latency and error rates for ELB API calls. Initially, running load balancers were unaffected, but over the next few hours, performance issues emerged for load balancers that were modified or needed to scale.

The root cause was identified as a maintenance process inadvertently run against the production ELB state data by a developer with persistent access. This missing data prevented the ELB control plane from correctly managing configurations. At its peak, 6.8% of running ELB load balancers were directly impacted, experiencing degraded performance and errors, while others could not be scaled or modified.

Recovery efforts included disabling ELB control plane workflows at 5:02 PM PST to prevent further impact. An initial attempt to restore the missing state data failed, delaying recovery. A successful snapshot restoration occurred at 2:45 AM PST on December 25, followed by a data merge completed by 5:40 AM PST.

The team gradually re-enabled ELB service workflows and APIs, with most APIs and backend workflows restored by 8:15 AM PST. By 10:30 AM PST, almost all affected load balancers were fully operational, and the service was communicated as operating normally at 12:05 PM PST on December 25. Remediation included modifying access controls for production ELB state data to require per-incident Change Management approval, improving data recovery processes, and planning architectural changes for automatic recovery from logical data loss.

