---
uuid: 3c3e7f35-0238-4c19-b404-b66fc07be4cb
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/incident-report-on-memory-leak-caused-by-cloudflare-parser-bug/
title: Cloudflare HTML parser memory leak
start_time: 2016-09-22T00:00:00Z
end_time: 2017-02-18T07:22:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- security
keywords:
- cloudflare
- memory leak
- parser
- ragel
- buffer overrun
- security
- project zero
- nginx
company: Cloudflare
product: HTML parser
source_published_at: 2017-02-23T23:01:06Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:46:55.219156Z
summary: A parser bug caused Cloudflare edge servers to return memory that contained private information such as HTTP cookies, authentication tokens, HTTP POST bodies, and other sensitive data.

---

Cloudflare experienced a memory leak on its edge servers, exposing sensitive customer data. The issue was reported by Google's Project Zero on February 18, 2017, but the underlying bug had been present for years. Memory leakage began as early as September 22, 2016, with the most significant impact occurring between February 13 and February 18, 2017.

The incident stemmed from a latent buffer overrun bug in Cloudflare's legacy Ragel-based HTML parser. This bug, present for years, was exposed when the new `cf-html` parser was introduced, altering internal NGINX buffer handling. The root cause was a pointer error in the Ragel-generated C code, where an equality check (`==`) instead of a greater-than-or-equal-to check (`>=`) allowed a pointer to step past the end of a buffer, leading to memory leakage.

The leaked memory contained private information such as HTTP cookies, authentication tokens, HTTP POST bodies, API keys, OAuth tokens, and even an internal private key used for machine-to-machine encryption within Cloudflare. Although the leakage rate was low (0.00003% of requests), some of this sensitive data was cached by search engines like Google, Yahoo, and Bing. Cloudflare customer SSL private keys were not affected.

Upon discovery, Cloudflare quickly disabled three features (Email Obfuscation, Server-side Excludes, and Automatic HTTPS Rewrites) that utilized the vulnerable parser chain, effectively stopping the leakage within hours. A global kill switch was implemented for Server-Side Excludes. Cloudflare also added explicit pointer checks (`SAFE_CHAR`) to the generated code to prevent future similar issues. A significant effort was made with search engine partners to identify and purge 770 unique URIs containing leaked memory from their caches before public disclosure.

