---
uuid: 3ea986e0-f370-4308-a884-20040cd74914
url: https://eslint.org/blog/2018/07/postmortem-for-malicious-package-publishes
archive_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20260419044416/https://eslint.org/blog/2018/07/postmortem-for-malicious-package-publishes/
title: Malicious Packages Published to npm
start_time: 2018-07-12T09:49:00Z
end_time: 2018-07-12T18:42:00Z
categories:
- postmortem
- security
keywords:
- npm
- eslint
- security
- supply chain
- package
- malicious
- javascript
- 2fa
company: ESLint
product: eslint-scope, eslint-config-eslint
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:47:12.033539Z
summary: On July 12th, 2018, an attacker compromised the npm account of an ESLint maintainer and published malicious packages to the npm registry.

---

On July 12th, 2018, an attacker compromised the npm account of an ESLint maintainer. This allowed the attacker to publish malicious versions of `eslint-config-eslint@5.0.2` and `eslint-scope@3.7.2` to the npm registry, starting at 9:49 UTC.

The malicious packages contained a postinstall script that downloaded and executed code from pastebin.com. This code was designed to exfiltrate the user's `.npmrc` file, which typically holds npm authentication tokens. The `eslint-scope` package is a dependency for several popular projects, including older ESLint versions and current Babel-ESLint and Webpack versions, indicating a potentially broad impact.

The root cause of the incident was the maintainer's npm account being compromised. This was attributed to password reuse across multiple sites and the absence of two-factor authentication on their npm account, with credentials likely obtained from a third-party data breach.

Upon discovery, the malicious packages were unpublished from npm, and the pastebin.com link containing the malicious code was taken down by 12:27 UTC. The npm team also revoked all access tokens generated before 2018-07-12 12:30 UTC to mitigate further compromise. ESLint subsequently published a clean version, `eslint-scope@3.7.3`, at 17:41 UTC.

As a result of this incident, ESLint provided recommendations for package maintainers, including avoiding password reuse, enabling npm two-factor authentication, auditing publisher access, and being cautious with auto-merging dependency upgrades. Application developers were also advised to use lockfiles to prevent automatic installation of new packages.

