---
uuid: 5b6ea49a-1478-48dc-9aaf-ccc1cc0556d6
url: https://users.csc.calpoly.edu/~jdalbey/SWE/Papers/att_collapse.html
title: 1990 AT&T Long Distance Network Collapse
start_time: 1990-01-15T14:25:00Z
end_time: 1990-01-15T23:30:00Z
categories:
- cascading-failure
keywords:
- at&t
- long-distance network
- 4ess
- software bug
- c programming
- network outage
- january 1990
- signaling system 7
company: AT&T
product: AT&T long-distance network
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:48:20.92393Z
summary: A bad line of C code introduced a race hazard which in due course collapsed the phone network. After a planned outage, the quickfire resumption messages triggered the race,  causing more reboots which retriggered the problem. "The problem repeated iteratively throughout the 114 switches in the network, blocking over 50 million calls in the nine hours it took to stabilize the system." From 1990.

---

On Monday, January 15th, 1990, at 2:25 PM, AT&T's long-distance network began experiencing a widespread malfunction. For nine hours, nearly 50% of calls failed to connect, blocking over 50 million calls. The incident caused AT&T to lose over $60 million and significantly impacted businesses reliant on the telephone network. The system stabilized around 11:30 PM when network loads decreased.

The backbone of AT&T's network, consisting of 114 computer-operated electronic switches (4ESS) linked by Common Channel Signaling System No. 7, was affected. A routine self-test by a New York switch initiated a maintenance reset, which then triggered a cascade of failures across the network.

The core issue stemmed from a one-line software bug introduced months prior in December during a software upgrade. This defect, a `break` statement within an `if` clause nested in a `switch` clause in C code, caused crucial communication information to be overwritten in receiving switches when two messages arrived in very close succession.

When a switch received a second message before processing the first, the software defect caused it to incorrectly exit a code block, leading to data corruption. Error correction software detected this overwrite and initiated a switch reset. Because all 114 switches contained the same faulty software, these resets propagated iteratively throughout the network, incapacitating the system.

Engineers worked for nine hours to stabilize the network. The system eventually stabilized as network loads decreased. The incident highlighted the difficulty of detecting obscure load- and time-dependent defects, even in rigorously tested software, and underscored the potential for self-healing systems to fail if the healing mechanism itself is flawed.

