---
uuid: 610cfc96-7d75-4c2a-aa06-8e2acb66b521
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/todays-outage-post-mortem-82515/
title: Cloudflare global outage caused by faulty router rule
start_time: 2013-03-03T09:47:00Z
end_time: 2013-03-03T10:49:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- postmortem
- hardware
- time
keywords:
- cloudflare
- outage
- router
- flowspec
- juniper
- ddos
- dns
- bgp
company: Cloudflare
product: edge routers
source_published_at: 2013-03-03T13:47:00Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:48:41.362946Z
summary: A bad config (router rule) caused all of their edge routers to crash, taking down all of Cloudflare.

---

On March 3, 2013, Cloudflare experienced a global outage starting at 09:47 UTC, which effectively took all of its services, including DNS and web proxy, offline. Customers attempting to access Cloudflare.com or any site on its network received DNS errors or "No Route to Host" messages. Services were largely restored by 10:49 UTC.

The incident was caused by a system-wide failure of Cloudflare's edge routers across its 23 data centers. Cloudflare uses Juniper routers and the Flowspec protocol to efficiently propagate router rules. During a DDoS attack targeting a customer's DNS servers, an internal attack profiler generated a signature for unusually large packets, specifically between 99,971 and 99,985 bytes long.

An operations team member applied a Flowspec rule based on this output to drop packets of that specific length. Although no packets of that size should have matched, the Juniper routers encountered a bug where processing this rule caused them to consume all their RAM and crash. Many routers crashed in a way that prevented automatic reboot and management port access.

Cloudflare's ops and network teams immediately detected the issue. They identified the problematic rule, removed it, and then initiated physical reboots of unresponsive routers across their global data centers. This manual process, spanning 14 countries, took approximately 30 minutes to begin restoring services. Cloudflare is investigating with Juniper and considering ways to isolate rule application in the future.

