---
uuid: 6452ddab-74c5-4ecf-b004-89c9dad29160
url: https://status.mailgun.com/incidents/p9nxxql8g9rh
title: Mailgun Website Intermittent Timeouts due to MongoDB Overload
start_time: 2017-01-12T14:09:00Z
end_time: 2017-01-12T20:35:00Z
categories:
- config-change
- postmortem
keywords:
- mongodb
- api
- smtp
- tracking
- website
- timeouts
- connections
- configuration
company: Mailgun
product: mongodb
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:48:56.077218Z
summary: Secondary MongoDB servers became overloaded and while troubleshooting accidentally pushed a change that sent all secondary traffic to the primary MongoDB server, overloading it as well and exacerbating the problem.

---

On January 12th at 14:09 UTC, Mailgun engineers began responding to alerts concerning their click/open tracking services and primary MongoDB clusters. Within ten minutes, it was determined that MongoDB secondary servers, responsible for most read operations, were under heavy load and failing to serve requests, which also caused elevated errors in tracking services.

While attempting to roll back recent MongoDB configuration changes that were believed to be the cause of increased connections, a human error occurred at 15:15 UTC. This error inadvertently introduced a new change that redirected API and SMTP service traffic from the secondary servers to the primary MongoDB server. As a result, the primary server became overloaded, leading to elevated error rates for Mailgun's API, SMTP, and website starting at 15:55 UTC.

Between 16:00 and 19:00 UTC, the engineering team worked to stabilize the system, resizing MongoDB servers and deploying connection limits. These efforts allowed approximately 75% of typical request throughput for the API to be restored. The incident impacted customer's ability to use Mailgun's API, SMTP, and tracking functionalities, as well as access the website.

Further configuration changes were prepared and deployed at 20:28 UTC, specifically to limit connections to the primary MongoDB server and re-establish preference for secondary servers for reads. These changes successfully stabilized the MongoDB server, and services in the affected region resumed normal operations at 20:35 UTC.

Post-incident analysis of MongoDB logs did not reveal a clear set of queries causing the initial performance degradation or connection increase. However, the incident's exacerbation was attributed to the human error during the rollback. Corrective actions included deploying redundant tracking infrastructure, implementing connection limits across all services, and permanently increasing the size of the primary Mongo cluster. Improvements to tracking service failure handling are also planned.

