---
uuid: 7af581de-48b3-4033-954f-4c894a0d3e75
url: https://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/internet/entries/a37b0470-47d4-3991-82bb-a7d5b8803771
title: BBC Online outage on Saturday 19th July 2014
start_time: 2014-07-19T09:30:00Z
categories:
- postmortem
keywords:
- bbc iplayer
- bbc online
- metadata
- database
- caching
- outage
- "2014"
- bbc.co.uk
company: BBC Online
product: BBC iPlayer, BBC iPlayer Radio, BBC Homepage
source_published_at: 2014-07-22T18:12:07Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:49:41.627076Z
summary: In July 2014, BBC Online experienced a very long outage of several of its popular online services including the BBC iPlayer. When the database backend was overloaded, it had started to throttle requests from various services. Services that hadn't cached the database responses locally began timing out and eventually failed completely.

---

On Saturday, July 19, 2014, at 9:30 AM, BBC Online experienced a significant incident affecting several key services. The primary issues involved a metadata system, which saw its database load "go through the roof," causing requests to application servers to fail. Concurrently, a caching layer pool failed, rendering products like BBC iPlayer and the BBC homepage inaccessible.

The incident led to widespread customer impact, with BBC iPlayer, BBC iPlayer Radio, and audio/video playback on bbc.co.uk being affected. Some older applications that directly relied on the metadata system failed immediately. The BBC homepage was switched to an emergency simplified version for prolonged periods, and BBC iPlayer was effectively unusable during Saturday afternoon and evening. This also reduced the 7-day catch-up window for some programmes aired on July 12th and 13th.

Initial remediation focused on restoring the caching layer, which was a complex failure. The metadata service required significant remedial work on Saturday afternoon and evening. The system operated in a "walking wounded" state throughout the rest of the weekend, with a full restoration of services planned for Monday morning to avoid further risk during Sunday evening's peak usage.

The BBC apologized for the inconvenience, acknowledging that such incidents are rare for popular products like BBC iPlayer. The organization committed to completing forensics to fully understand the root causes of both the metadata system overload and the caching layer failure, and to implement measures to minimize future interruptions.

