---
uuid: 840dff69-8ba6-4a77-b482-9b270d029f10
url: http://yellerapp.com/posts/2014-08-04-postmortem1.html
archive_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20201018145502if_/http://yellerapp.com/posts/2014-08-04-postmortem1.html
title: Yeller Network Partition Processing Delay
start_time: 2014-07-29T12:00:00Z
end_time: 2014-07-30T09:30:00Z
categories:
- cloud
keywords:
- yeller
- network partition
- exception processing
- datacenter
- riak
- datomic
- cluster
- delay
- datacenter maintenance
- server
company: Yeller
product: Yeller platform
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T18:15:49.178504Z
summary: A network partition in a cluster caused some messages to get delayed, up to 6-7 hours. For reasons that aren't clear, a rolling restart of the cluster healed the partition. There's some suspicious that it was due to cached routes, but there wasn't enough logging information to tell for sure.

---

On Tuesday, July 29, 2014, following planned datacenter maintenance, Yeller experienced multiple network partitions within its server cluster starting around 12:00 UTC. This led to severe delays in exception processing and disabled write operations for user account and billing data. The issue persisted until approximately 09:30 UTC on Wednesday, July 30, 2014.

Customers experienced two primary impacts. Firstly, 42 exceptions saw processing delays of up to 7 hours, requiring manual reprocessing due to Riak write timeouts. Secondly, users were unable to perform actions requiring writes to the user/billing data store, such as signing up, changing passwords, or inviting users. While these functions were impaired, Yeller remained available for reading exceptions, and no exceptions were lost.

The network partitions were eventually resolved after a careful rolling restart of the cluster. The exact root cause of the partition remains unclear, though cached routes are suspected. The restart, while effective, unfortunately cleared the machine state that could have aided in definitive root cause analysis.

In response to the incident, Yeller plans to improve outage communication by utilizing Statuspage.io, internal chat bots, and by displaying system status in the web UI. Technical improvements include investigating enhanced retry logic for exception writes to reduce manual intervention. Future incident response will aim to preserve the state of affected machines for better root cause determination.

