---
uuid: 8e0d1847-c35b-4d53-896e-43577fdf5eac
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-outage-on-july-17-2020/
title: Cloudflare outage on July 17, 2020
start_time: 2020-07-17T21:12:00Z
end_time: 2020-07-17T21:39:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- postmortem
- hardware
- security
keywords:
- cloudflare
- outage
- backbone
- network
- bgp
- atlanta
- configuration error
- router
company: Cloudflare
product: Cloudflare backbone network
source_published_at: 2020-07-18T02:22:00+01:00
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:50:35.19002Z
summary: During a maintenance of their private backbone network, an engineer made a typo in the Atlanta datacenter network configuration, causing all traffic coming from America and Europe flowing to this only datacenter, crushing it.

---

On July 17, 2020, Cloudflare experienced a 27-minute outage affecting numerous network locations in America and Europe, causing a 50% traffic drop across its network. The incident began at 21:12 UTC and service was restored by 21:39 UTC, though full recovery including logs and metrics took until 22:10 UTC.

The outage stemmed from a configuration error in Cloudflare's private backbone network. While addressing congestion on a link between Newark and Chicago, a network engineer updated a router in Atlanta. This update contained an error that caused the Atlanta router to incorrectly advertise all BGP routes with a high local-preference, effectively attracting all backbone traffic to Atlanta.

The sudden influx of traffic overwhelmed the Atlanta router, leading to the failure of Cloudflare network locations connected to the backbone. Affected locations included major cities across North America and Europe, rendering Internet properties and Cloudflare services inaccessible for users in those regions.

Cloudflare quickly identified the issue and disabled the Atlanta router to restore service. Immediate changes were made to the backbone configuration to prevent recurrence. Further remediation steps include implementing a maximum-prefix limit on backbone BGP sessions and adjusting the BGP local-preference for local server routes to prevent a single location from attracting excessive traffic.

