---
uuid: 8ff8dda7-4bd3-40fe-a898-3c39551da461
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/details-of-the-cloudflare-outage-on-july-2-2019/
title: Cloudflare global outage on July 2, 2019
start_time: 2019-07-02T13:42:00Z
end_time: 2019-07-02T14:09:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- postmortem
- hardware
- security
keywords:
- waf
- regular expression
- cpu exhaustion
- global
- 502 errors
- cloudflare
- july 2 2019
- outage
company: Cloudflare
product: Cloudflare WAF
source_published_at: 2019-07-12T16:45:21+01:00
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:50:35.249523Z
summary: A CPU exhaustion was caused by a single WAF rule that contained a poorly written regular expression that ended up creating excessive backtracking. This rule was deployed quickly to production and a series of events lead to a global 27 minutes downtime of the Cloudfare services.

---

On July 2, 2019, Cloudflare experienced a global outage lasting 27 minutes, starting at 13:42 UTC. The incident began when an engineer deployed a minor change to the WAF Managed Rules. Within minutes, PagerDuty alerts indicated faults with the WAF, followed by widespread 502 errors and CPU exhaustion across Cloudflare's network worldwide.

The outage was caused by a single WAF rule containing a poorly written regular expression that led to excessive backtracking and CPU exhaustion on servers handling HTTP/HTTPS traffic. This brought down Cloudflare's core proxying, CDN, and WAF functionality. Contributing factors included a protection against excessive CPU usage being mistakenly removed during a prior refactoring, a regular expression engine without complexity guarantees, a test suite unable to detect high CPU consumption, and a WAF deployment process that allowed global rollout of non-emergency changes without staged testing.

Customers globally saw 502 error pages when trying to access websites using Cloudflare. The outage also impacted Cloudflare's internal operations, making their own dashboard and API inaccessible. The WAF was identified as the problem at 14:00 UTC, and a global WAF termination was executed at 14:07 UTC, with traffic levels returning to normal by 14:09 UTC.

In response, Cloudflare re-introduced the excessive CPU usage protection, manually inspected all WAF rules, and implemented performance profiling for rules in the test suite. They are also switching to a regex engine with runtime guarantees and changing the WAF rule deployment SOP to include staged rollouts. Additionally, they are creating an emergency bypass for the Cloudflare Dashboard and API and automating status page updates. Long-term plans include porting the WAF to a new firewall engine.

