---
uuid: 91fb1613-e01a-4a07-ba82-928839bc9272
url: https://web.archive.org/web/20151008061104/http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=165171
title: Chrome SyncDataType parsing crash
start_time: 2012-12-10T00:00:00Z
end_time: 2012-12-11T02:05:07Z
categories:
- config-change
- postmortem
keywords:
- chrome
- sync
- crash
- quota
- load balancing
- client
- server
- parsing
company: Google
product: Chrome Sync
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:50:49.183979Z
summary: A bad config caused a quota service to fail, which caused multiple services to fail (including gmail).

---

On December 10, 2012, Google Chrome users experienced crashes, initially believed to be related to Gmail being down. The issue was quickly identified as Chrome browsers crashing due to incorrect parsing of SyncDataType, triggered by the Chrome Sync service.

The root cause was a faulty load balancing configuration change in a core Google infrastructure component. This change caused a quota service, which Chrome Sync servers rely on to enforce per-datatype sync traffic quotas, to experience significant traffic problems.

In response to the quota service failure, Chrome Sync servers reacted by conservatively instructing clients to throttle "all" data types. This included data types that older Chrome client versions did not yet understand or support.

The Chrome client-side logic was unable to gracefully handle these unrecognized throttled data types. Specifically, a function attempting to convert a protobuf field number to an enum value returned an `UNSPECIFIED` (zero) value, which then caused an `out_of_range` error when stored in a bitset, leading to the browser crash.

Remediation involved a swift server-side fix to prevent Sync servers from throttling unknown data types, which stopped the immediate crashes. Additionally, a client-side fix (r172232) was developed and merged into Chrome on December 11, 2012, to ensure clients could gracefully handle invalid specifics field numbers without crashing, improving robustness.

