---
uuid: c0cdbe65-bdf4-4be5-b3a5-0012d23fc1e1
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/a-byzantine-failure-in-the-real-world/
title: Cloudflare API and Dashboard availability incident on 2020-11-02
start_time: 2020-11-02T14:43:00Z
end_time: 2020-11-02T21:20:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cascading-failure
- cloud
- config-change
- hardware
- security
keywords:
- cloudflare
- api
- dashboard
- etcd
- byzantine fault
- network switch
- database
- outage
company: Cloudflare
product: API and Dashboard
source_published_at: 2020-11-27T12:00:00Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:52:42.837569Z
summary: A partial switch misbehavior caused a cascading Byzantine failure which impacted the availability of the API and dashboard for six hours and 33 minutes.

---

On November 2, 2020, Cloudflare experienced an incident that impacted the availability of its API and dashboard for six hours and 33 minutes. The success rate for API queries periodically dropped to 75%, and the dashboard experience was up to 80 times slower than normal. Cloudflare's edge network remained operational, but the control plane, comprising microservices across two regions, was affected.

The incident began at 14:43 UTC with a partial failure of a network switch. This switch was in a degraded state, where network control plane protocols remained operational but the data plane was not processing all packets. This led to a Byzantine fault within an etcd cluster, as different cluster members received conflicting information, causing etcd to become read-only at 14:44 UTC.

The read-only etcd state prevented database clusters from communicating their primary status, triggering automatic promotion of synchronous database replicas at 14:45 UTC. A defect in the cluster management system required a full rebuild of all database replicas upon promotion. For a critical authentication database, this meant the primary became overloaded without available replicas, leading to the main impact.

To mitigate the impact, Cloudflare shed load from the overloaded authentication database by reducing non-essential operations and manually diverted API traffic to read replicas in a secondary data center. The dashboard experience, however, worsened due to session inflexibility. At 21:20 UTC, the first database replica rebuilt, restoring performance. Cloudflare has since fixed the cluster management system bug and adjusted auto-remediation parameters to prevent similar issues.

