---
uuid: dac13e0f-a04b-43fb-89a7-c739424f527d
url: https://aws.amazon.com/message/2329B7/
title: Amazon EC2, EBS, and RDS Service Event in EU West Region
start_time: 2011-08-07T17:41:00Z
end_time: 2011-08-11T03:25:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cloud
- config-change
- hardware
keywords:
- aws
- ec2
- ebs
- rds
- eu west
- power outage
- availability zone
- snapshot
company: Amazon
product: EC2, EBS, RDS
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:54:04.752495Z
summary: An unknown event caused a transformer to fail. One of the PLCs that checks that generator power is in phase failed for an unknown reason, which prevented a set of backup generators from coming online. This affected EC2, EBS, and RDS in EU West.

---

The incident began at 10:41 AM PDT on August 7th, 2011, with a 110kV 10 megawatt transformer failure from a utility provider, leading to a total loss of electricity to a significant portion of an AWS Availability Zone in the EU West Region. This initial power loss was compounded when backup generators failed to come online due to a Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) not completing its task, believed to be caused by a large ground fault.

With insufficient power, Uninterruptable Power Supplies (UPSs) drained, leading to the loss of almost all EC2 instances and 58% of EBS volumes in the affected Availability Zone. Connectivity issues arose due to power loss to networking gear, causing API errors and launch delays across all EU West Availability Zones as the EC2 management service became overloaded by requests targeting the inaccessible zone.

EBS volumes experienced "stuck" states or went offline, with recovery hampered by insufficient spare capacity for re-mirroring and the time-consuming process of creating recovery snapshots for potentially inconsistent volumes. RDS instances were also significantly affected, with Single-AZ instances becoming unavailable. Multi-AZ RDS instances experienced prolonged failover times for a subset due to a DNS connectivity issue related to the power loss, which triggered a software bug and required manual intervention in some rare cases.

Separately, an independent EBS software bug was discovered, which incorrectly flagged blocks for deletion during snapshot cleanup due to a hardware failure not being correctly detected. This led to the deletion of blocks still referenced by customer snapshots. Although human checks were in place, they failed to detect the error, causing data loss for some snapshots. This issue was identified and recovery snapshots were created and delivered by August 8th, before the power event fully concluded.

AWS outlined several actions to prevent recurrence. These include adding redundancy and isolation for PLCs, implementing better load balancing and further isolation for EC2 control plane components, and drastically reducing EBS recovery time by enabling direct volume recovery on servers without relying on S3 snapshots. The EBS snapshot cleanup process was also modified with alarms and additional holding states to prevent future erroneous deletions.

