---
uuid: df0aad9f-5319-4346-a707-07f90de60b3c
url: http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2014/01/todays-outage-for-several-google.html
title: Google logged-in services outage due to configuration error on January 24, 2014
start_time: 2014-01-24T19:02:00Z
end_time: 2014-01-24T19:30:00Z
categories:
- cloud
- postmortem
keywords:
- google
- outage
- configuration
- software bug
- gmail
- google+
- calendar
- documents
company: Google
product: Google logged-in services
source_author: Ben Treynor
source_published_at: 2014-01-24T00:00:00Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:54:15.359738Z
summary: A bad config (autogenerated) took down most Google services.

---

On January 24, 2014, many Google users experienced an outage affecting logged-in services such as Gmail, Google+, Calendar, and Documents. The disruption began around 11:02 a.m. PST, with most users experiencing issues for approximately 25 minutes. A smaller percentage of users, about 10%, faced problems for up to an hour.

The incident was triggered at 10:55 a.m. PST when an internal system responsible for generating configurations encountered a software bug. This bug led to the generation of an incorrect configuration, which was then distributed to live services over the subsequent 15 minutes.

The incorrect configuration caused affected services to ignore user requests, resulting in errors. Google's Site Reliability Team was alerted at 11:02 a.m. PST. The system automatically corrected itself by 11:14 a.m. PST, generating and distributing a new, correct configuration. Services began to recover rapidly, with almost all users restored by 11:30 a.m. PST.

Google is taking steps to prevent recurrence, including correcting the software bug in the configuration generator and auditing other critical configuration systems. Additional input validation checks for configurations and enhanced targeted monitoring are also being implemented to detect and diagnose future service failures more quickly.

