---
uuid: e5d63957-75ff-4e09-8f1c-df2e77df71b0
url: https://mail.tarsnap.com/tarsnap-announce/msg00035.html
title: Tarsnap outage 2016-07-24 10:15:19--11:40:04
start_time: 2016-07-24T10:15:19Z
end_time: 2016-07-24T11:40:04Z
categories:
- cloud
- postmortem
keywords:
- tarsnap
- outage
- s3
- amazon
- filesystem
- full disk
- monitoring
- backup
company: Tarsnap
product: Tarsnap
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:54:43.726489Z
summary: A batch job which scans for unused blocks in Amazon S3 and marks them to be freed encountered a condition where all retries for freeing certain blocks would fail. The batch job logs its actions to local disk and this log grew without bound. When the filesystem filled, this caused other filesystem writes to fail, and the Tarsnap service stopped. Manually removing the log file restored service.

---

On 2016-07-24, the Tarsnap service experienced an outage lasting approximately 85 minutes, from 10:15:19 UTC to 11:40:04 UTC. During this period, customers were unable to create or retrieve archives, and any archives in the process of being created failed. All existing customer data remained safely stored. Tarsnap users were credited with two days of storage costs as compensation.

The Tarsnap service went offline due to a filesystem becoming full. This was caused by a routine background job, responsible for identifying and marking unreferenced data blocks in Amazon S3 for deletion, generating an excessively large log file. This log file, intended to record status changes, grew without bound, consuming all available disk space.

The background job's log file grew uncontrollably because it repeatedly failed to record changes to Amazon S3. This failure stemmed from an "undiagnosed change in Amazon S3 behaviour" that began around June 30th, where S3 PUT requests, particularly retries, were consistently failing. Tarsnap's system was not adequately monitoring filesystem space, allowing the log file to grow undetected until it caused a critical failure.

Contributing to the outage's duration, the Tarsnap operator slept through initial monitoring alerts. Upon waking, the operator SSHed into the server, identified the runaway log file, deleted it, and restarted the Tarsnap service. The incident highlighted the need for improved internal monitoring, particularly for filesystem usage, and better investigation of anomalous external service behavior, even if initially deemed harmless.

