---
uuid: e9563dd5-d6a6-4798-b127-d32e1608f6de
url: https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-and-why-the-leap-second-affected-cloudflare-dns/
title: Cloudflare DNS CNAME lookup failures due to 2017 leap second
start_time: 2017-01-01T00:00:00Z
end_time: 2017-01-01T06:45:00Z
categories:
- automation
- cascading-failure
- config-change
- time
keywords:
- cloudflare
- dns
- rrdns
- leap second
- go
- cname
- panic
- time
company: Cloudflare
product: Cloudflare DNS
source_published_at: 2017-01-01T22:40:26Z
source_fetched_at: 2026-05-04T17:54:54.496944Z
summary: Backwards time flow from tracking [the 27th leap second on 2016-12-31T23:59:60Z](https://hpiers.obspm.fr/iers/bul/bulc/bulletinc.52) caused the weighted round-robin selection of DNS resolvers (RRDNS) to panic and fail on some CNAME lookups.  Go's `time.Now()` was incorrectly assumed to be monotonic; this injected negative values into calls to `rand.Int63n()`, which panics in that case.

---

At 2017-01-01 00:00 UTC, Cloudflare's custom RRDNS software began to experience panics, leading to failures in some DNS resolutions for Cloudflare-managed web properties. This issue primarily affected customers utilizing CNAME DNS records. At its peak, approximately 0.2% of DNS queries to Cloudflare and less than 1% of all HTTP requests encountered an error.

The root cause was related to the 2017 leap second. Cloudflare's RRDNS software, written in Go, measures the performance of upstream DNS resolvers using `time.Now()`. The code incorrectly assumed that time would always move forward, but `time.Now()` is not monotonic. During the leap second, the calculation of Round Trip Time (RTT) could yield negative values.

These negative RTT values, after being smoothed over multiple measurements, were subsequently passed as arguments to Go's `rand.Int63n()` function. This function is designed to panic when provided with a negative input, which directly caused the RRDNS software to crash and fail CNAME lookups.

Engineers were escalated at 00:10 UTC, and the issue was confirmed by 00:34 UTC. A mitigation was deployed to a canary node by 00:55 UTC and confirmed. The fix, which prevented the recording of negative RTT values, was rapidly rolled out, prioritizing the most impacted data centers.

Deployment to the most affected data center occurred by 01:23 UTC, and by 01:48 UTC, the fix was being deployed globally. The impact was fully resolved by 06:45 UTC, with the fix rolled out to most affected data centers, restoring normal service.

